# Summary

This directory represents experiments with dataset **C** of the thesis.

In this directory, I am trying to analyze the claim that FracMinHash works
better for genomes with different sizes than Mash. For this, I've setup a
reference database consisting of all currently (as of April 2024) published
_Phytophthora_ reference genomes.

As query sequences, I am using different _Phytophthora cinnamomi_ genomes as
well as genomes of species that are typically found in soil samples of Avocado
trees (which is a target of _P. cinnamomi_) according to [Solís-García _et
al._](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33510714/).

I've sketched all sequences using $s=2000$, $k=21$ and FarmHash as the hash
function and estimated the phylogenetic distances. For comparison, I have
calculated distances using MashTree and the default parameters.

The distances are stored either as `fmhdist_n-m.nxs` or `mashtree_n-m.nxs` where
`n` is the number of bacterial/fungal queries and `m` is the number of
_Phytophthora_ queries. For some distances, you'll also find the splits as
exported from SplitsTree.

Also, you'll find the input files that were used to obtain the distances, i.e.
the CSVs that list all input sequences.

All analysis that belongs to the empty intersections can be found in
`empty_intersections-4-1`, i.e. the output for different random seeds as well as
two scripts to generate markdown tables from the results.

Finally, you'll find

- `ortho_ani.txt`, the pairwise ANI for the six genomes in focus (5 queries +
  _P. infestans_)
- `splits-differences.txt`, the output generated by `../../misc/compare_splits.py`
- `stats_chi2.txt` and `stats_mannwhitneyu.text`, the statistics generated by
  `../../misc/coordinates_complexity_correlation.py` for all reference genomes


